# The Social Network Front End Project

For your final project, I'm going to have you create the **front end** to the Spark Front End Web Development Social Network.

All of the students in the class are on the Social Network! You can create new posts, and everyone else in the Social Network can see those posts.

For your front end,  you'll need at least 2 pages:

-   a **main page** which shows all the posts in the Social Network
    -   The main page (probably your `index.html`) should show all the posts in the Social Network, from most recent to least recent. Each post has some content, an author, and a date/time that it was created.
-   a **secret posting page** that lets you post to the Social Network
    -   Your posting page should have a text box where you can punch in some content, and then a button that lets you create a post on the Social Network. **Your posting page should be secret! Only you should know the URL for it, otherwise other people will be able to post to your profile.**

You'll need to make requests to the API to create and get posts on the Social Network. All of the API documentation is up at <https://spark-class-social-network-api.hoff.tech/>.

Some notes:

-   Your `profile_id` is just your Slack username.
-   You'll need a `profile_secret` in order to post to the Social Network. I'll direct message you your `profile_secret` in Slack.
-   Don't share your `profile_secret` with anyone, and don't share the URL of your posting page with anyone, or else they'll be able to post to your profile as you!
-   Don't put your `profile_secret` anywhere in your `index.html`, and don't include it in any scripts that are included in your `index.html` - otherwise, I'll be able to open that script and find it.
-   Use common sense when creating a post on the Social Network. I'm not moderating it at all, but keep it PG-13 please.
-   Use common sense when using the Social Network API. It can pretty easily handle 1000s of posts, but it doesn't have any restrictions on the amount of posts that you can create, or how often you create posts. If you write a `for` loop that does nothing but create spam posts all day, then I'm going to be sad :(

Logistics:

-   Remember to create a separate site44 site, and keep it up after the class ends so that potential clients and employers can see it!
-   Submit your site44 site for [assignment 19](/assignments/19).
-   This info is available on [readings 19](/readings/19) and [assignment 19](/assignments/19).
-   Ask for help! I just wrote this thing, so if something's not so clear, I can definitely improve it. Let me know!
