# Front End Web Development

Spark Boulder, Summer 2016

Session 11: **Reboot**

Javascript 102: variables, loops, and functions

-------

Logistics
Next week: Spring Break wooooo!

No class during Spring Break - it’s on the syllabus if you forget! Class resumes Monday, March 28th

Over break - watch more Treehouse videos! Especially JavaScript ones.

(poll time)

Plans for Spring Break?

what break?
beaches
video games

More dumb fun web stuff
Semi-related this week!

http://xkcd.com/1608/


http://1101b.com/xkcd1608/



Tonight, on Front End Web Development:
JavaScript!

A brief history of JavaScript

In 1995, Netscape hired Brendan Eich to write a language that would make it easier for early web developers to manipulate on the content on web pages. He (eventually) wrote the first version of JavaScript.

20 years later, it’s still pretty easy to describe JavaScript as a complete clusterfuck.




What is JavaScript?
JavaScript is a programming language that we use to control browsers.
We can modify page elements, fetch data across the network, perform computations, or listen to user inputs using JavaScript.

Recently, it’s changed so that we can use JavaScript in lots more places than the browser - for desktop applications and server-side programming, for example.

Fun fact - Atom and Node.js (what we use to install Firebase tools and http-server) are both written in JavaScript!

Side note: Java =/= JavaScript
Java is a cross-platform programming language designed to be easy to run natively on lots of devices - desktops, early cell phones, ATMs, satnav systems, etc

JavaScript is basically completely unrelated, except in name - it’s a programming language designed to run in the browser and manipulate web pages

The current state of JavaScript
(still a complete clusterfuck)
The past 5 years has seen an explosion of client-side (browser) and server-side JavaScript libraries, frameworks, and new language features.
Angular, React, jQuery, Node, CoffeeScript, ES2015, Babel, Browserify, Webpack, Mocha, Jasmine, Chai, Moment, Hot reloading, Sinon, Express, JSDOM, etc...
State of the Art JavaScript in 2016: https://medium.com/javascript-and-opinions/state-of-the-art-javascript-in-2016-ab67fc68eb0b#.t4o3zc6pq


Time to write some JavaScript!

The <script> tag
<script>
	alert("hello!");
</script>
or
<script src="/myscript.js" />

Some JS functions and methods
alert(“This is one of those annoying popups that asks if you’re sure that you want to leave this site”);

console.log(“Where does this message get logged to?”);

document.write(“<h1>asdfasdfasdf</h1>”);


Some more JS functions and methods
document.getElementById('someElementID')
// doesn’t do anything on its own - “returns” an element

console.log(document.getElementById('someElementID').innerHTML);

document.getElementById('someElementID').innerHTML = “dude. sweet.”;





Variables
Store references to things in variables!
Generally not required at first, but it’ll make things a lot easier as your JS gets more complex.

var dudeSweet = “dude. sweet!”;
document.getElementById('someElementID').innerHTML = dudeSweet;

A more complicated variables example
var elementID = “someElementID”;
var element = document.getElementById(elementID);
var dudeSweet = “dude. sweet!”;

element.innerHTML = dudeSweet;
// does the same thing!

That’s it!

Zach Holman on “Independent Study”
https://zachholman.com/2011/02/graduated-with-a-major-in-startups/

Side note - the one developer I look up to the most is Zach Holman.
All of the stuff that he’s got on his blog is worth reading - highly recommend checking it out.



Excelsior! 🚀
