# Front End Web Development

Spark Boulder, Summer 2016

Session 7: **Generations**

Bootstrap & CSS frameworks

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# More Dumb Fun Web Dev Stuff

Code in the Dark - 1 screenshot of a website, 15 minutes, no autocomplete, no browser

<http://codeinthedark.com/>

<http://codeinthedark.com/editor/>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# From last time: setting up a domain name

1. Buy a domain (I usually use [Namecheap](https://www.namecheap.com/))
2. Go to the "Hosting" section on the Firebase app console
3. Click the "Connect Custom Domain" button
4. Add your domain (just `my-domain-name.com` - no `http` or `www`)
5. To "verify ownership", head into your Namecheap dashboard, and click "Manage" on the domain that you're trying to connect.
6. Click on the "Advanced DNS" section of your domain.
7. Set "Mail Settings" to "No Email Service". Don't forget to click save!
8. In the "Host Records" section, create two `TXT` records, with "Host" set to `@`, each with the value specified in the Firebase popup. Set "TTL" to "Automatic".
9. While you wait for Firebase to validate the domain, sit back, relax, and watch some [Don't Hug Me I'm Scared](https://youtu.be/9C_HReR_McQ).
10. Contemplate why you decided to actually do that.
11. Once Firebase has validated the domain, head back into the Namecheap host records for your domain.
12. Add the `CNAME` host records specified in the Firebase popup. Again, set "Host" to `@` and "TTL" to "Automatic". (If you want your site to work with `www`, create another identical host record, but this time set "Host" to `www`)
13. Test out your domain to see if it works!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# What's a CSS framework?

A CSS framework is a set of CSS stylesheets and JavaScript scripts that we can use on our page.

Usually, CSS frameworks style a bunch of elements by default, like `h1`, `p`, `table`, and `button`.

Sometimes, they expose "components", which they let us reference using _classes_. Things like `.container`, `.row`, `.panel`, and `.jumbotron`.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# What is Bootstrap?

Bootstrap is a **CSS Framework**!

Bootstrap is a framework that gives us a couple things:

- A responsive grid system
- A default theme with CSS
- Some Javascript-enabled, interactable components

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Before we begin, a couple tips:

- If you want to find out more about what Bootstrap can do, explore the documentation! Click around on every page, element, and component that they offer.
- Copy and paste **with reckless abandon**! It's the fastest and easiest way to do web development.
- If you get stuck, read the documentation **in-depth**! There's probably a gotcha that you may have missed while copy-pasting with reckless abandon.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Getting set up with Bootstrap

Bust out that "About me" page, and let's get set up with Bootstrap!

<http://getbootstrap.com/getting-started/>

```
<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.6/css/bootstrap.min.css">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.6/css/bootstrap-theme.min.css">
    <script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.2.4/jquery.min.js"></script>
    <script src="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.6/js/bootstrap.min.js"></script>
</head>
```

Getting stuck? Check your Developer Tools, and look for that little red x in the corner!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Bootstrap's Grid System

<iframe src="//giphy.com/embed/14buPo4oYF4n72?html5=true" width="480" height="192" frameborder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowfullscreen="">
</iframe>

The "Grid System" is probably the most confusing and powerful part of bootstrap.

## Rules of the grid:

- When in doubt, read the documentation: <http://getbootstrap.com/css/#grid>
- Put all grid elements inside of `div`s
- You should have a `.container` as the very top/root element of your grid
- Your container should contain several `.row`s that you want to use to segment out your page vertically
- **Each row should contain a number of columns whose widths add up to 12**.
- You can specify columns using `.col-xs-N`, where N is the width of the column. E.g. `.col-xs-12`, `.col-xs-6`, `.col-xs-1`, or anything from `1` to `12`.

## Advanced rules:

- There's also `container-fluid`! And technically, you don't need a single root `container`, so you can abuse that for some interesting affects.
- You can have column widths only apply at certain screen sizes! See if you can figure out the differences between `xs`, `sm`, `md`, and `lg`
- "Nesting" columns (e.g. putting columns inside of other columns) is tricky, but sometimes necessary. Read the docs!
- "Pushing" and "pulling" columns is possible to rearrange elements at different screen sizes.

Here's an example grid system:

```
<div class="container">
    <!-- this container has two rows, stacked top-to-bottom -->
    <div class="row">
        <!-- this row has two columns of **equal** width, side-by-side, that span 12 column-widths across -->
        <div class="col-xs-6">...</div>
        <div class="col-xs-6">...</div>
    </div>
    <div class="row">
        <!-- this row has three columns of **unequal** width, side-by-side, that span 12 column-widths across -->
        <div class="col-xs-2">...</div>
        <div class="col-xs-8">...</div>
        <div class="col-xs-2">...</div>
    </div>
</div>
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Bootstrap "Components"

"Components" isn't a technical term. Also could be called various bootstrap "features", or cool things that Bootstrap does for us. Things like panels, navigation, pagination, button groups, list groups, modals, collapsed elements, etc.

List of bootstrap components: <http://getbootstrap.com/components/>

Some components require JavaScript: <http://getbootstrap.com/javascript/>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Glyphicons

<http://getbootstrap.com/components/#glyphicons>

Sometimes it's really nice to have clean icons on your site:

```
<span class="glyphicon glyphicon-star" />
```

Control the size with the `font-size` CSS style!

```
.glyphicon-star {
	font-size: 10px;
}
```

Need more icons? Check out <http://fontawesome.io/>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Navbar

<http://getbootstrap.com/components/#nav>

Can use pills or tabs - good for small amounts of navigation, or if you need nested navigation

<http://getbootstrap.com/components/#navbar>

Navbars span the entire width, but can be affixed to the top or bottom

**Note:** If you want to have your navbar "collapse" at smaller screen sizes, you have to include the JavaScript files at the beginning of the page!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Jumbotron

<http://getbootstrap.com/components/#jumbotron>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Modals

<http://getbootstrap.com/javascript/#modals>

Modals are those little popup window thingies - sometimes called lightboxes.

Need to have multiple modals on your page? Use `data-target`!

**Easy image magnification:** remove the headers and footers from modals, and just put images in them!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Carousel

<http://getbootstrap.com/javascript/#carousel>

Auto-progressing image rotator thingies - easy way to show multiple images without any scrolling.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# How to be a Web Developer

- Look stuff up on the internet
- Make stuff
- Repeat

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Excelsior! 🚀
